Add telemetry API and initial set of events (#2922)
microsoft/BotFramework-WebChat: docs/TELEMETRY.md

> # Telemetry system

Reviewer: Is there a link to Telemetry docs in root `README.md`?

Author: No, we don't have it for `NOTIFICATION.md` either. Added new bug #2941 to resolve this.

## Collection

We have 2 samples for collecting telemetry measurements:

-  [Collecting telemetry measurements using Azure Application Insights](https://github.com/microsoft/BotFramework-WebChat/tree/master/samples/04.api/k.telemetry-application-insights)
-  [Collecting telemetry measurements using Google Analytics](https://github.com/microsoft/BotFramework-WebChat/tree/master/samples/04.api/l.telemetry-google-analytics)

## Measurements

We simplified our measurements to make it suitable for popular telemetry services:

-  Dimension: dimensions are environment information, including browser capabilities and options passed to Web Chat
-  Event: event will include a name, optional string data, and optional non-negative finite integer value
-  Exception: exception will include the JavaScript error object
-  Timing: timing will fire two events, `timingstart` and `timingend`
   -  `timingstart` will include a name
   -  `timingend` will include a name, and duration measured in milliseconds

> Feature updates on minor versions may introduce new or remove outdated measurements. To better understand user behaviors with different set of measurements, developers are advised to tag their telemetry data with the Web Chat version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feature updates on minor versions may introduce new or remove outdated measurements. To better understand user behaviors with a different set of measurements, developers are advised to tag their telemetry data with the Web Chat version.
```

### Dimensions

The following information will be emitted on every measurement. Dimensions may change during the session.

| Name                                   | Description                                                                              |
| -------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `prop:locale`                          | Locale specified in props, normalized                                                    |
| `prop:speechRecognition`               | `"false"` if speech recognition is switched off                                          |
| `prop:speechSynthesis`                 | `"false"` if speech synthesis is switched off                                            |

> | `capability:downscaleImage:workerType` | `"web worker"` if the browser support Web Worker and offline canvas, otherwise, `"main"` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `capability:downscaleImage:workerType` | `"web worker"` if the browser supports Web Worker and offline canvas, otherwise, `"main"` |
```

> `prop:speechRecognition` and `prop:speechSynthesis` do not represent browser capabilities on Speech Recognition and Speech Synthesis.

> Some telemetry services may have limited number of dimensions. For example, Google Analytics has a limit of [20 custom dimensions](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/2709828?hl=en) and [500 events per session](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9267744?hl=en). As Web Chat may introduce more dimensions later, developers are advised to pick dimensions they needed before sending to their services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some telemetry services may have a limited number of dimensions. For example, Google Analytics has a limit of [20 custom dimensions](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/2709828?hl=en) and [500 events per session](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9267744?hl=en). As Web Chat may introduce more dimensions later, developers are advised to pick dimensions they need before sending to their services.
```

### Events for hooks

When the following hooks are called, one or more event measurements will be emitted.

| Hooks              | Events          | Data          | Data type | Description                                               |
| ------------------ | --------------- | ------------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `useSendFiles`     | `sendFiles`     |               |           | Emit when the user uploading files                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `useSendFiles`     | `sendFiles`     |               |           | Emitted when the user uploading files                        |
```

Reviewer: may have to re-line because of this change; sorry :(

# Telemetry system

In Web Chat 4.8, telemetry system is introduced. Developers can opt into this feature by implementing their own telemetry collection adapter and start pumping measurements into telemetry services of their choice.

> Microsoft do not collect or receive any telemetry measurements for Web Chat, on both CDN and NPM releases. Developers must provide their own telemetry collection adapter to start collecting data. Under local regulations, they may be required to provide privacy policy to the end-user to explain their data collection policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft **does not** collect or receive any telemetry measurements for Web Chat on either CDN and NPM releases. Developers must provide their own telemetry collection adapter to start collecting data. Under local regulations, they may be required to provide privacy policies to the end-user to explain their data collection policy.
```

## Measurements

We simplified our measurements to make it suitable for popular telemetry services:

-  Dimensions are environment information, including browser capabilities and options passed to Web Chat
-  Events will include a name, optional string data, and optional non-negative finite integer value
-  Exceptions will include the JavaScript error object
-  Timings will fire two events, `timingstart` and `timingend`
   -  `timingstart` will include a name

>    -  `timingend` will include a name, and duration measured in milliseconds

Reviewer: Maybe this part should be separated out into a definitions section?

>    -  `timingend` will include a name, and duration measured in milliseconds

Reviewer: Can we change the format here to be:
`- Dimensions: dimensions are environment information ...`

Makes it a little easier to understand that we are providing definitions.

> Feature updates on minor versions may introduce new or remove outdated measurements. To better understand user behaviors with different set of measurements, developers are advised to tag their telemetry data with Web Chat version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feature updates on minor versions may introduce new or remove outdated measurements. To better understand user behaviors with different set of measurements, developers are advised to tag their telemetry data with the Web Chat version.
```

### Dimensions

The following information will be emitted on every measurement. Dimensions may change during the session.

| Name                                   | Description                                                                              |
| -------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `prop:locale`                          | Locale specified                                                                         |
| `prop:locale:numChange`                | Number of times locale has changed                                                       |
| `prop:speechRecognition`               | `"false"` if speech recognition is switched off                                          |
| `prop:speechSynthesis`                 | `"false"` if speech synthesis is switched off                                            |
| `capability:downscaleImage:workerType` | `"web worker"` if the browser support Web Worker and offline canvas, otherwise, `"main"` |

> > `prop:speechRecognition` and `prop:speechSynthesis` does not represents browser capabilities on Speech Recognition and Speech Synthesis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `prop:speechRecognition` and `prop:speechSynthesis` do not represent browser capabilities on Speech Recognition and Speech Synthesis.
```

Some telemetry services may have limited number of dimensions. For example, Google Analytics has a limit of 20 custom dimensions. As Web Chat may introduce more dimensions later, developers are advised to pick dimensions they needed before sending to their services.

### Events for hooks

When the following hooks are called, one or more event measurements will be emitted.

| Hooks              | Events                  | Description                                               |
| ------------------ | ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `useSendFiles`     | `sendFiles`             | Emit when the user uploading files                        |
| `useSendFiles`     | `sendFiles:numFile`     | Number of files uploaded                                  |
| `useSendFiles`     | `sendFiles:sumSizeInKB` | Total file size in kilobytes                              |

> | `useSubmitSendBox` | `submitSendBox`         | `data` is the method of submit, for example, `"keyboard"` |

Reviewer: should all examples be listed. For example mouse?

Author: Currently, we only added a few measurements, no mouse yet.

When we talk to legal team later, we will know how many measurements we could set.

```ts
interface TelemetryMeasurementEvent {
   type: string;
   dimension: any;
}

interface TelemetryEventMeasurementEvent extends TelemetryMeasurementEvent {
   type: 'event';
   name: string;
   data?: string;
   value?: number;
}

interface TelemetryExceptionMeasurementEvent extends TelemetryMeasurementEvent {
   type: 'exception';
   error: Error;
}

interface TelemetryTimingStartMeasurementEvent extends TelemetryMeasurementEvent {
   type: 'timingstart';
   name: string;
   timingId: string;
}

interface TelemetryTimingEndMeasurementEvent extends TelemetryMeasurementEvent {
   type: 'timingend';
   name: string;
   timingId: string;
   duration: number;
}
```

## Hooks

To emit custom measurements through the `onTelemetry` handler, you can use one of the following hooks.

### Events

```ts
useTrackEvent() =>
  (
    name: string,
    data?: string
  ) => void;
```

### Exceptions

```ts
useTrackException() =>
  (
    error: Exception
  ) => void;
```

### Timing

```ts
useTrackTiming() =>
  (
    name: string
  ) =>
    (() => void | Promise);
```

## Samples

### Google Analytics

-  20 custom dimensions

> -  500 event hits per session

Reviewer: Just in case Google changes their specs, I would recommend simply linking to their info page here :)

# Telemetry system

In Web Chat 4.8, a new telemetry system is introduced. Developers can opt into this feature by implementing their own telemetry collection adapter and start pumping measurements into telemetry services of their choice.

> Microsoft **does not** collect or receive any telemetry measurements for Web Chat on either CDN and NPM releases. Developers must provide their own telemetry collection adapter to start collecting data. Under local regulations, they may be required to provide privacy policies to the end-user to explain their data collection policy and provide a prompt.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Microsoft **does not** collect or receive any telemetry measurements for Web Chat on either the CDN or the NPM releases. Developers must provide their own telemetry collection adapter to start collecting data. Under local regulations, they may be required to provide privacy policies to the end-user to explain their data collection policy and provide a prompt.
```
